# 2023-12-14-articles.md

## Article 1

Title: Against the odds, European Union agrees to open membership negotiations with Ukraine

Main body: The European Union decided Thursday to open accession negotiations with Ukraine, a momentous moment and stunning reversal for a country at war that had struggled to find the backing for its membership aspirations and long faced obstinate opposition from Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban.

European Council President Charles Michel, who was chairing a Brussels summit of the EU’s 27 leaders where the decision was made, called it “a clear signal of hope for their people and our continent.”

Although the process between opening negotiations and Ukraine finally becoming a member could take many years, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy welcomed the agreement as “a victory for Ukraine. A victory for all of Europe.”

“History is made by those who don’t get tired of fighting for freedom,” Zelenskyy said.

Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said it also was a black eye for Russian President Vladimir Putin: “It is a very clear message to Moscow. Us Europeans, we don’t let go of Ukraine,” he said.

Orban said his opposition remained steadfast, but, with a unanimous decision required, he decided to let his right to oppose lapse because the 26 others were arguing so strongly in favor. Under EU rules, an abstention does not prevent a decision from being adopted.

An EU official, who asked not to be identified because the summit negotiations were private, said Orban was “momentarily absent from the room in a pre-agreed and constructive manner” when the decision was made.

Orban said he stepped aside since all of his counterparts were committed to putting Ukraine on the EU membership path, though their position did not change his mind.

“Hungary’s perspective is clear: Ukraine is not ready for us to begin negotiations on its EU membership. It’s a completely illogical, irrational and improper decision” he said.

Others lauded Orban’s gesture; they were preparing for a summit that some feared might spill over into an extra day Saturday.

“Certainly quicker than any of us expected,” Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said.

“In fairness to Prime Minister Orban, he made his case, made it very strongly. He disagrees with this decision and he’s not changing his opinion in that sense, but essentially decided not to use the veto power,” Varadkar said.

“I respect the fact that he he didn’t do that, because it would have put us in a very difficult position as a European Union,” the Irish leader added.

Belgium’s De Croo had a slightly different take, saying he thought Orban “didn’t use his veto because he realized that it would be indefensible.”

At the same time as Ukraine, the EU leaders also decided to open membership negotiations with Ukraine’s neighbor Moldova.

In the United States, national security adviser Jake Sullivan welcomed “the EU’s historic decision to open accession negotiations with Ukraine and Moldova, a crucial step toward fulfilling their Euro-Atlantic aspirations.”

Left on the summit agenda now is a promise to give Ukraine the money and wherewithal to stave off Russia’s invasion, another agenda item held up by Orban.

The Hungarian leader came into the summit vowing to both block the plans by his 26 fellow leaders to officially declare that membership negotiations with Ukraine can start, and more pressingly, deny Kyiv 50 billion euros ($54 billion) in financial aid that the country desperately needs to stay afloat.

“The European Union is about to make a terrible mistake and they must be stopped — even if 26 of them want to do it, and we are the only ones against it,” Orban said in comments released by his office Thursday. “This is a mistake, we are destroying the European Union.”

In Kyiv, the news was met with cautious optimism.

“We are Europe. Ukraine is Europe, the center of Europe. I want us to be given the status of a proud member of Europe,” said Olha Paradovska, a 70-year-old Kyiv resident.

Ivan Olezhko, 19, said the decision to start accession talks was long overdue. “If everything goes well, I will be happy, but we don’t know what will happen next,” he said.

EU leaders had expected the summit to take at least until late Friday before any sort of breakthrough might be clinched, so the fateful announcement came totally unexpectedly after Orban did not block the move by his colleagues.

A beaming Michel came down in the summit media room unscheduled and said “This is a historic moment, and it shows the credibility of the European Union. The strength of the European Union. The decision is made.”

He said the negotiations would open before a report will be made to the leaders in March.

The surprise came at a dire time for Zelenskyy, straight off a trip this week to Washington where his pleas for more aid from the U.S. Congress fell on deaf ears. Ukraine’s president was looking for a better response in Brussels.

“It is just as important that Ukraine has the means to continue the war and rebuild its country,” De Croo said.

The urgency to find a solution is matched only by the potential blow to the EU’s credibility, the Ukrainian president said in a video address to the leaders assembled in Brussels.

“Nobody wants Europe to be seen as untrustworthy. Or as unable to take decisions it prepared itself,” he said.

“Whatever it takes” had been the relentless mantra of the EU in pledging its support, leaders dressed up in the yellow and sky-blue colors of Ukraine, and countless speeches ending with the rallying cry “Slava Ukraini!” — “Glory to Ukraine!”

And again, against the odds, the EU prevailed.

## Article 2

Title; EU sidesteps Viktor Orbán to open membership talks with Ukraine

Main body: The EU has decided to open membership negotiations with Ukraine, in an unexpected move that will be a critical boost to Volodymyr Zelenskiy and deal a blow to Vladimir Putin.

The announcement, made on Thursday after eight hours of tense negotiations in Brussels, came despite the opposition of Hungary, whose prime minister, Viktor Orbán, had for weeks said it would veto any opening of accession talks.

In the end, diplomats said, Orbán left the room when the key decision – which had to be unanimous – was made by leaders of the other 26 member states. Even for a city in which the art of deal-making is well honed, it was a highly unusual manoeuvre.

Sources said the decision of Orbán not to be in the room was agreed beforehand: “He knew that 26 member states were strongly in favour. Of course it’s legal.”

Moments after the decision was announced, Zelenskiy said: “This is a victory for Ukraine. A victory for all of Europe. A victory that motivates, inspires, and strengthens.”

On X, the Ukrainian president added: “History is made by those who don’t get tired of fighting for freedom.”

There was more good news for Zelenskiy later on Thursday when the US Senate announced it would delay its holiday break – due to start on Friday – in order to vote next week on military aid for Ukraine.

Joe Biden has been urging lawmakers to pass a supplemental aid package to provide $50bn in new security to Ukraine, as well as $14bn for Israel, but Republicans have said they will only vote for that aid if it is paired with new controls for the US-Mexico border.

The European Council president, Charles Michel, who was chairing a Brussels summit of the EU’s 27 leaders where the decision was made, called it “a clear signal of hope for their people and our continent”.

He added: “This is historic moment that ensures the credibility and the strength of the EU.”

After weeks of brinkmanship with Orbán, who had argued that Ukraine was “one of the most corrupt countries in the world”, the decision after less than nine hours of talks behind closed doors came as a surprise.

There is no mechanism for a country to abstain on a decision of this magnitude but Hungary suggested it was a decision endorsed by 26 member states rather than 27.

Speaking in a video on social media, Orbán said he had not voted as he did not want to take part in what he thought was “a completely senseless, irrational and incorrect decision”.

Budapest had decided that the other member states “should go their own way”, he said. “Hungary does not want to share in this bad decision and for this reason Hungary did not participate in the decision today.”

It was a far cry from the trenchant position he had appeared to take just hours earlier, when he vowed to block any such move on the enlargement of the EU. Leaders also agreed to open accession negotiations with Moldova and to grant candidate status to Georgia.

In a shot in the arm for Bosnia and Herzegovina’s candidacy, negotiations have also been given the green light once the Balkan state meets the “necessary degree of compliances”.

The move to open the path for Ukraine comes at a critical time for Zelenskiy, who is struggling to persuade US Republicans to support a $61bn (£47.9bn) military aid package for Ukraine, with objectors insisting on White House concessions over US border security as a condition for a deal.

Speaking on Thursday in a marathon end of year press conference, Putin alluded to these and other worries, claiming that western support for Kyiv would soon dry up. “Today Ukraine produces almost nothing,” he said. “Everything is being brought in for free. But that could run out at some point. And it seems that they are gradually running out.”

Zelenskiy was so concerned that his country would not get what he needed from the summit that he considered flying to Brussels in a last-minute appeal but in the end it was not needed.

Just before the leaders sat down to a lunch of Breton medallion, root vegetables and panettone, the Ukrainian leader made an impassioned plea to leaders not to “betray” his country by dithering on EU membership, which he said would put a “satisfied smile” on Putin’s face.

He urged EU leaders to think of all the soldiers who were fighting in the trenches, rather than themselves. “This isn’t about what politicians need. It’s about what people need. All those people in the trenches, shooting down drones and missiles every night,” he said.

“And all those working so children can learn even under constant Russian terror, and doctors can save lives even when Russia tries to destroy our energy or communication systems.”

Michel said negotiations would now open in March, when a report on the final changes Ukraine must undertake to make the first steps on the path to EU membership is expected to be complete.

“This is extremely important; we want to support Ukraine. This is a very powerful political signal, it is a very powerful political decision and today and tonight I think to the people of Ukraine – we are on their side and this decision made by the member states is extremely important for the European Union,” Michel said.

The summit will continue into Friday with big decisions on filling the pandemic and energy crisis-sized hole in the EU budget, and discussions on other pressing matters including sanctions on Hamas leaders, Israeli settlers involved in violence and the rise of antisemitism.

Late on Thursday, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and Finland broke off to smooth differences on budget priorities that included a near €10bn allocation for migration issues.
