---
sources:
  ["https://edition.cnn.com/2023/08/30/europe/russia-north-korea-advancing-arms-deal-intl/index.html", "https://news.yahoo.com/north-korea-russia-meet-over-163817386.html"]
tags: ["north korea", "russia", "usa"]
---

# Russia-North Korea Arms Deal Raises Concerns Amid Ongoing Conflict

In a recent revelation, US intelligence reports indicate that Russia and North Korea are actively engaged in negotiations for an arms deal, sparking concerns about their potential impact on the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. The talks, which have been publicly denied by North Korea, have seen Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu visiting Pyongyang, followed by exchanges of letters between Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un.

The negotiations involve a potential supply of significant quantities and various types of weaponry, including artillery, from North Korea to Russia. The Biden administration, alarmed by these developments, emphasizes that such an agreement would violate several UN Security Council resolutions. Further discussions between the two nations are expected in the coming months.

This disclosure underscores Russia's apparent desperation to source weapons amidst its protracted war in Ukraine. The Biden administration remains vigilant, vowing to impose sanctions on entities involved in the potential arms deal. The situation reflects the complexity of international relationships and the broader impact of arms agreements on global conflicts.
