---
sources: ["https://www.ft.com/content/87efbae8-0217-4045-b4f1-e348f4ca7466", "https://www.reuters.com/world/us-china-aim-revive-climate-cooperation-tensions-simmer-2023-07-16/"]
tags: ["usa", "china", "environment"]
---
# US-China Climate Talks Resume Amidst Tense Relations

John Kerry, the US climate envoy, landed in Beijing to reestablish climate talks with China after a year-long halt, aiming to bolster joint efforts against global warming.

The dialogue between the world's top two greenhouse gas emitters, which took a break last year following House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan, is being revived amidst strained relations caused by trade disputes, military tensions, and espionage allegations.

Kerry's agenda includes discussions on reducing methane emissions, transitioning from coal, combating deforestation, and promoting renewable energy technologies. He also aims to alleviate the competitive tension between the two nations, emphasizing collaboration to advance the cause of climate change.

The US has sought to separate climate discussions from other contentious issues in its relationship with China, which has been at its worst since diplomatic relations began in 1979. However, according to Thom Woodroofe of the Asia Society's China Climate Hub, China sees geopolitics as integral to climate talks.

The success of the talks will be measured by the progress on issues agreed upon before the climate talks were suspended. This includes China's commitment to addressing its coal power sector and launching a plan to control methane emissions.

China, which accounts for half of the world's coal consumption, pledged in 2020 to reach peak CO2 emissions by 2030 and achieve net-zero emissions by 2060. These goals necessitate significant reduction in coal demand.

This visit follows US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen’s and Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s trips to Beijing. The Biden administration aims to resume regular high-level engagement after a period of sporadic contact between the two nations.

Despite the ongoing tensions, both the US and China affirm that they can collaborate on climate change irrespective of other disagreements. The current dialogue is seen as crucial for the most important bilateral relationship in the world.