---
sources: ["https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-08-22/ethiopia-investigates-report-of-killings-by-saudi-border-guards#xj4y7vzkg", "https://www.cbsnews.com/news/saudi-arabia-ethiopia-border-guards-killed-hundreds-migrants/"]
tags: ["ethiopia", "saudi arabia"]
---
# Ethiopian Migrants Allegedly Killed by Saudi Border Guards

Ethiopia is launching an investigation into allegations that Saudi Arabian border guards killed hundreds of Ethiopian migrants and asylum seekers attempting to enter the Gulf state from Yemen since March 2022. The US-based organization, Human Rights Watch (HRW), published a report detailing the use of explosives and firearms by Saudi authorities, describing a pattern that could equate to crimes against humanity.

The report by HRW was constructed from interviews with 38 Ethiopian migrants, satellite imagery, videos, and other sources. Witnesses recounted harrowing scenes, including close-range attacks where Saudi border guards inquired where the migrants would prefer to be shot. Incidents of forced rape and brutal beatings were also documented.

Ethiopian migrants have historically journeyed to Saudi Arabia seeking employment. However, during the Covid-19 pandemic, many found themselves detained in unfavorable conditions. Since 2017, Saudi Arabia has repatriated over 400,000 Ethiopian migrants as part of an immigration crackdown.

Saudi Arabia has yet to comment on the allegations. Ethiopia, while expressing its intent to investigate the matter alongside Saudi authorities, emphasized its strong diplomatic ties with the Gulf nation. HRW has urged the United Nations to probe the reported killings and called on Saudi Arabia to cease any lethal force against migrants.