---
sources: ["https://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment-arts-66196357", "https://www.reuters.com/world/us/hollywood-actors-union-sets-strike-vote-thursday-talks-break-down-2023-07-13/"]
tags: ["usa", "strikes"]
---
# Hollywood on Hold: Major Actors and Screenwriters Strike for Fair Pay and AI Regulations

Hollywood is facing the largest industry shutdown in over 60 years as around 160,000 actors join screenwriters in a strike over pay and concerns about artificial intelligence (AI). As a result, most US film and TV productions are now on hiatus.

The Screen Actors Guild (SAG), representing the strikers, is seeking better pay, improved working conditions, and robust protection against the potential replacement of actors by AI and digital replicas. This move disrupts both in-production and completed works, as actors will neither participate in filming nor promote movies during the strike.

Streaming giants are the primary targets of the strikers' demands. The strikers urge these companies to agree to a fairer split of profits and to increase transparency regarding the financial success of shows and films, particularly as residuals—a significant income source for actors—are often calculated based on a show's success.

The studios responded with a "ground-breaking proposal" that would protect the digital likeness of actors and require their consent when digital replicas are used. However, the SAG rejected the offer, with Duncan Crabtree-Ireland, the SAG's national executive director and chief negotiator, criticizing it as unacceptable.

The strike is expected to lead to financial hardships for thousands who depend on the industry. Events like the Emmys and Comic-Con might also be rescheduled or scaled back. This strike follows another initiated by the Writers Guild of America in May, marking the first "double strike" since 1960.

Industry leaders, including Disney CEO Bob Iger, have criticized the strike as impractical and damaging to an industry still recovering from the pandemic. However, SAG-AFTRA president Fran Drescher emphasized that the strike represents a broader struggle against prioritizing Wall Street over the essential contributors of the industry.

The strike is expected to deepen the financial hardship for many in the industry and to disrupt many ongoing and upcoming productions. Despite this, the actors and screenwriters maintain that their demands are necessary for their livelihood and for maintaining the artistic integrity of their work.