---
sources: ["https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/iran-executes-agent-israels-mossad-intelligence-service-official-media-2023-12-16/", "https://www.dw.com/en/iran-executes-man-after-convicting-him-of-spying-for-israel/a-67742731"]
tags: ["iran", "israel"]
---

# Iran Executes Alleged Mossad Agent Amid Regional Tensions

Iran has executed an individual accused of spying for Israel's Mossad intelligence service, as reported by both the official IRNA and the semi-official Mizan news agencies. The execution occurred in Zahedan jail, located in the southeastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan.

The individual, whose identity remains undisclosed, was charged with gathering and transmitting classified information to Mossad. This action was allegedly aimed at disrupting public order and aiding opposition groups against the Islamic Republic. The execution follows recent heightened tensions between Iran and Israel, particularly amidst the ongoing conflict between Israel and Hamas.

This execution coincides with increased unrest in the Sistan-Baluchestan province. Just a day before, Baluch militants attacked a police station in the region, resulting in the deaths of 11 security personnel and several injuries. State television reported a state funeral for the fallen personnel in Rask town.

The Sistan-Baluchestan province, which borders Afghanistan and Pakistan, is predominantly Sunni Muslim, contrasting with Iran's majority Shi’ite population. The region has a history of clashes between security forces and Sunni militants.

This event marks another escalation in the longstanding espionage and military tensions between Iran and Israel. It comes at a critical time, considering the strained relations over Iran's nuclear program and Israel's security concerns. Iran has accused Israel of assassinations of its nuclear scientists, while Israel has repeatedly criticized the 2015 nuclear deal, citing its temporary restrictions and lack of coverage on Iran's missile program and regional military activities. ​​
