# 2023-11-09-articles.md

## Article 1

Title: US forces targeted in broadest Iraq attacks since start of Israel-Hamas war

Main body: US forces were targeted in three attacks in Iraq on Thursday but suffered no casualties, security sources have said, in the most geographically widespread series of strikes on US assets in a single day since the Israel-Hamas conflict started.

Spokespeople for the US embassy in Baghdad and US-led international forces stationed in Iraq did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

A joint patrol of US forces and the Iraqi counter-terrorism service was targeted by an explosive device near the northern city of Mosul, causing damage to a vehicle but no casualties, two security sources said.

Armed drones also targeted the al-Harir airbase in Erbil and the Ain al-Asad airbase west of Baghdad, both of which house US and international forces. The drones were downed by air defences and caused no casualties, security sources said.

A statement from Iraqi Kurdistan’s counter-terrorism service, which differs to the federal Iraqi service, said attacks by drones at the al-Harir airbase caused a fire at one of its fuel depots. It said the base had been evacuated of US-led forces on 20 October.

US-led troops have been attacked at least 40 times in Iraq and Syria since early October over Israel’s devastating attack on Gaza in retaliation for Hamas militants’ 7 October attack on Israel.

Forty-five US soldiers have been injured, US officials say.

Washington blames the attacks on groups backed by Iran and says Tehran is ultimately responsible, a claim which Tehran denies, saying groups engaging in the attacks were doing so on their own accord.

Iran-backed militias in Iraq have publicly stated that US assets will continue to be targeted as long as the US backs Israel in its war on Gaza.

The latest attacks come after the White House said on Thursday the US military had struck targets in Syria to destroy weaponry and deter Iranian-backed separatist groups from targeting American personnel in the region.

The US has occasionally carried out retaliatory strikes against Iranian-backed forces in the region after they attack American forces, including a strike on 26 October.

The US defence secretary, Lloyd Austin, said in statement that Wednesday’s strikes were conducted by two F-15 fighters and were in response to the recent attacks against US forces.

Austin said the attacks must stop. “If attacks by Iran’s proxies against US forces continue, we will not hesitate to take further necessary measures to protect our people,” he said.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Wednesday’s strike killed nine people affiliated with Iran-backed groups in Syria, a toll that could not be independently confirmed.

Reuters has reported that the US military was taking new measures to protect its Middle East forces during the increase in attacks by suspected Iran-backed groups, and was leaving open the possibility of evacuating military families if needed.

The measures include increasing patrols, restricting access to base facilities and boosting intelligence collection, including through drone and other surveillance operations, officials said.

## Article 2

Title: US carries out airstrikes in eastern Syria targeting IRGC and Iranian-backed groups’ weapons storage facility

Main body: Two US F-15 fighter jets conducted an airstrike on a weapons storage facility in eastern Syria used by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and affiliated groups, the Pentagon announced Wednesday.

“This precision self-defense strike is a response to a series of attacks against U.S. personnel in Iraq and Syria by IRGC-Quds Force affiliates,” Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said in a statement. “The President has no higher priority than the safety of U.S. personnel, and he directed today’s action to make clear that the United States will defend itself, its personnel, and its interests.”

“The United States is fully prepared to take further necessary measures to protect our people and our facilities,” he added. “We urge against any escalation.”

A senior military official said Wednesday evening that the facility, located in Maysalun in Deir Ezzor, Syria, is believed to have housed weapons used in “many of the airstrikes that have taken place against our forces here in the region.”

“We’ve been watching it for a bit to ensure that when we struck the target, we would strike it at a time that we would be able to eliminate the use of the facility to the IRGC. … I watched the engagement, I can tell you that we’re pretty certain there were some secondary explosions that indicated that the facility was housing weapons that we believe are likely used in many of the strikes that have taken place against our forces here in the region,” the official said.

The official added that they are “very certain” Wednesday’s strike “did not involve civilian loss.”

The US, the official said, “did use the deconfliction line” with Russia. The US speaks with Russia regularly over a deconfliction line regarding military operations in Syria.

The US strike is the second time the US has hit facilities used by Iranian-backed groups in response to nearly daily attacks by Iranian proxies on US forces in Iraq and Syria. On October 26, a US F-15 and two F-16s used precision-guided munitions to strike two facilities linked to Iran-backed militias in eastern Syria.

US and coalition forces have been targeted at least 41 times since October 17 by one-way attack drones or rocket attacks — the latest being a multi-rocket attack on US and coalition forces at Shaddadi, Syria.

Wednesday’s attack did not result in casualties or any damage to infrastructure, according to a US official.

More than 40 troops sustained minor injuries in attacks before the US’ strike on October 26, including at least 20 traumatic brain injuries.

A senior defense official said that Wednesday’s strike was meant to convey “a clear message to Iran that we hold it accountable for the attacks on US forces,” and that the US expects Iran to “take measures to direct its proxies to stop.”

“In light of heightened tensions stemming from the ongoing Israel-Hamas conflict, we have undertaken additional measures to communicate directly with Iran, Iran-aligned groups in Iraq, Lebanon, and our regional partners,” the defense official said. “We aim to clarify that our military actions do not signal a change in our approach to the Israel-Hamas conflict, and we have no intentions of escalating conflict in the region. Our commitment to self-defense and the protection of US personnel remains the same.”

The US strike comes the same day that an unmanned US MQ-9 Reaper drone was shot down off the coast of Yemen by Iran-backed Houthi forces. US Central Command is investigating the incident.

CNN previously reported that Iran-backed groups are planning to increase its attacks on US forces in the Middle East as Iran seeks to take advantage of backlash in the region to US support of Israel in the wake of Hamas’ brutal attack on October 7.

Since October 7, and the increasingly frequent attacks of US troops in the region, the US has sent significant firepower to the Middle East as a deterrence to widening the conflict between Israel and Hamas, and in support of forces in the region.

Among the deployed capabilities are two carrier strike groups, which each employ thousands of sailors and several guided missile destroyers; various aircraft including F-15 and F-16 fighters; and roughly 1,200 troops including those attached to Patriot and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) batteries.

The senior defense official said Wednesday that the US has fortified its bases in the region “with additional Patriot batteries, and increased defensive counter air-patrols to further deter attacks and defend our forces.”
