---
sources: ["https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/us-forces-attacked-iraq-airbase-respond-self-defence-us-officials-2023-11-21/", "https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/21/politics/us-attack-iraq/index.html"]
tags: ["usa", "iraq", "conflicts"]
---

# U.S. Strikes Iran-Backed Militia in Iraq in Response to Attacks

In a significant escalation, U.S. forces have carried out a series of strikes against Iranian-backed militias in Iraq. This action marks the first publicly reported U.S. response in Iraq to a series of recent attacks on U.S. and coalition forces in the region.

The strikes, confirmed by U.S. officials, targeted two facilities in Iraq, with one assault involving a U.S. military AC-130 aircraft. This aircraft responded in self-defense, killing several Iranian-backed militants. The action followed an attack on the Ain al-Asad air base, which resulted in eight injuries and minor infrastructure damage. The U.S. military stated these strikes were a direct response to the attacks by Iran and Iran-backed groups.

Since October 17, there have been at least 66 attacks against U.S. and coalition forces in Iraq and Syria, attributed to Iran-aligned Iraqi militia groups. These attacks have caused injuries, including traumatic brain injuries, to at least 62 U.S. personnel.

The U.S. has previously limited its responses to these provocations to targeted strikes in Syria. However, the recent actions indicate a shift in the U.S. strategy amidst the delicate political situation in Iraq, where the Iraqi Prime Minister, Mohammed Shia Al-Sudani, relies on the support of these Iranian-backed militias.

Social media accounts linked to Iran-aligned Iraqi militias mourned a member killed in Tuesday's battle, the first reported casualty in Iraq linked to the ongoing Gaza war. This conflict has involved various factions within Iran's regional militia network, known as the Axis of Resistance.

The U.S. maintains a presence of 2,500 troops in Iraq and 900 in Syria, primarily to assist local forces in preventing the resurgence of Islamic State.

Deputy Pentagon Press Secretary Sabrina Singh stated that the U.S. actions have been successful in deterring wider regional conflict, emphasizing the right to respond at a time and place of their choosing.
