---
sources: ["https://edition.cnn.com/2023/07/26/africa/niger-presidency-attempted-coup-intl/index.html", "https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-66320895"]
tags: ["niger"]
---
# Attempted Military Coup in Niger, President Bazoum Reportedly Seized

Soldiers in Niger, dressed in military fatigues, have claimed to have executed a coup, causing international alarm and deepening fears of instability in the volatile Sahel region of Africa. President Mohamed Bazoum has reportedly been seized by members of the Presidential Guard. The soldiers, led by Colonel-Major Amadou Abdramane, announced the end of the current regime on national TV, citing deteriorating security and poor governance.

National institutions have been suspended and the country's borders are temporarily closed. Foreign Minister Hassoumi Massoudou has labeled these actions as "an attempted coup d'etat," urging mutinous officers to return to their ranks and claiming that the entirety of the army does not support the coup. Mediation efforts are underway with Nigeria's president dialoguing with the military.

Despite the uncertainty surrounding the president's whereabouts, Bazoum is said to be in good health and unharmed. Protests have broken out in the capital, Niamey, with citizens rallying in support of Bazoum.

International authorities, including UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, have condemned the unconstitutional change of government. Calls have been made for an immediate end to all actions undermining democratic principles in Niger.

The unfolding situation has raised concerns about Niger's role in the fight against Islamist extremism in the region. As one of the poorest countries globally, Niger has a history of coups and political instability, which could potentially impact the international efforts to restore stability in West Africa.