---
sources: ["https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/nov/12/bitter-rows-among-french-politicians-over-paris-march-to-condemn-antisemitism", "https://apnews.com/article/france-paris-antisemitism-march-macron-1083d79342ce7a27ccd4f5f63e2abc57"]
tags: ["france", "israel", "palestine", "conflicts"]
---

# Unity and Tension: Over 100,000 March Against Antisemitism in Paris Amid Political Divide

In a powerful display of unity against antisemitism, over 100,000 people, including senior French politicians, marched through Paris. The march was spurred by a dramatic rise in anti-Jewish incidents across France and the recent conflict between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas. Tensions were palpable as France, home to Europe's largest Jewish and Muslim communities, confronts a surge in antisemitic acts, which have nearly tripled since the beginning of the conflict on October 7.

Prime Minister Élisabeth Borne, daughter of a Jewish Holocaust survivor, led the procession, emphasizing the nation's intolerance towards antisemitism. French President Emmanuel Macron, while not present, expressed solidarity in a letter, condemning the "unbearable resurgence of unbridled antisemitism" in France. Notably, former presidents François Hollande and Nicolas Sarkozy joined the march, symbolizing a cross-political commitment to combating hate.

However, the march also highlighted political rifts. Far-right leader Marine Le Pen's participation drew criticism, questioning her party's commitment to eradicating its antisemitic past. Amidst this, the march remained largely peaceful, marred only by minor scuffles and strong words between political factions.

As the nation grapples with these challenges, Sunday's march in Paris stands as the largest recent gathering to denounce antisemitism, a significant moment reflecting France's ongoing struggle with its values and the realities of its diverse population.
