---
sources: ["https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-66905581", "https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/sep/24/first-evacuees-from-nagorno-karabakh-cross-into-armenia-azerbaijan"]
tags: ["armenia", "azerbaijan", "conflicts"]
---

# Nagorno-Karabakh: Over 1,000 Ethnic Armenians Flee Amidst Concerns of Ethnic Cleansing

In the wake of Azerbaijan reclaiming the majority ethnic Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, over 1,050 ethnic Armenians have taken refuge in Armenia. The Armenian government has promptly provided many of these refugees with government-funded housing.

Azerbaijan, having retaken an area home to around 120,000 ethnic Armenians earlier this week, expresses intentions to re-integrate them as "equal citizens". However, Armenia raises alarms over potential ethnic cleansing.

Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan voiced concerns in a recent TV address, emphasizing that many may see leaving as the only option unless Azerbaijan ensures proper living conditions and safeguards against ethnic cleansing. He reiterated Armenia's readiness to warmly receive the evacuees.

David Babayan, an adviser to the enclave's ethnic Armenian leader, expects almost everyone to depart, stating that the vast majority would prefer not to live under Azerbaijani rule.

In the midst of this turmoil, humanitarian supplies have reached Nagorno-Karabakh, but the overarching situation remains grave. Many are still reportedly trapped in Stepanakert, which has been overwhelmed with displaced persons due to the recent conflict.

Refugees, including children, are being registered, offered shelter, and given access to psychological assistance upon their arrival from Nagorno-Karabakh.
